---
layout: default
title: Metadata file
nav_order: 1
parent: Preparing your collection data
grand_parent: Wax
permalink: /wax/preparing-your-collection-data/metadata/
---

# Metadata file

Wax can work with __CSV__, __JSON__, and __YAML__ files, though CSVs are recommended. Below is the CSV that powers the `qatar` collection in the [Wax demo site](https://minicomp.github.io/wax/).

<br>

{% include sample-data-table.html %}

<br>

## Requirements

__Wax requires each object record to have a globally unique__ `pid` (as its persistent identifier) __and a__ `label` __field.__ The other fields are optional and up to you for describing your collection.

__The object__ `pid` values cannot have whitespace or special characters. They should follow "snake case", where letters are lowercase, special characters are removed, and spaces are replaced by underscores, e.g.
`Object #57` would be `object_57`.

__CSV headers (or JSON keys) should also use snake case.__ For another example the heading `Current Location, City` should be replaced with `current_location_city`.

__Some fields are needed for Jekyll and Wax, and should not be used in your metadata file__. For example, Jekyll has rules for its `date` field. You should avoid this key and use `_date`, like below.

The fields `thumbnail`, `full`, and `manifest` (seen below) are generated by Wax when you process your collection images. __You should not manually create these fields__, and should avoid these keys in your metadata.

## Tips

To normalize and validate your metadata records, try [Open Refine](http://openrefine.org/). You can facet fields and make sure there aren't hidden spaces or sneaky typos in your values.


## Saving

When you are ready to export your metadata file, save it as your collection name in its simplest form, for example `documents.csv`, `items.json`, `frick.yml`. This will make your job easier later.
